## Mission: Run Tor in a Box

| ❗ Notice                                                                                                    |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| This overview describes Shadow's original<br>architecture (version 1.x) and not the current<br>architecture. |

<br>

<!--[[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/torinabox.png|align=right|width=175px]]-->
<!--[Run Tor in a box with Shadow!][image-torinabox]-->
<!--[image-torinabox]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/torinabox.png-->

<a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/torinabox.png"><img align="right" width="225" alt="Run Tor in a box with Shadow!" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/torinabox.png"></a>

Shadow was developed because there was a recognized need for an accurate,
efficient, and scalable tool for Tor experimentation: using the PlanetLab
platform is undesirable due to management overhead and lack of control; existing
emulators are far too inefficient when scaling to thousands of virtual hosts;
roll-your-own simulators are often too inaccurate or generic to be useful for
multiple projects; and experiments on the live Tor network are often infeasible
due to privacy risks.

Our goal was to provide a tool that can be used by anyone with a Linux machine
or access to EC2 to hasten the development of research prototypes and reduce the
time to deployment. Although originally written with Tor experimentation in
mind, Shadow can also run Bitcoin and is useful for researching or prototyping
other distributed or peer-to-peer systems including multi-party computation
protocols.

## Feature Overview

Shadow does the following:

 + creates an isolated simulation environment where virtual hosts may
   communicate with each other but not with the Internet
 + natively executes **real applications** like Tor and Bitcoin 
 + provides efficient, accurate, and **controlled** experiments
 + models network topology, latency, and bandwidth
 + runs without root on a single Linux machine
 + simulates multiple virtual hosts in virtual time
 + simulates the network (TCP stack) and CPU processing delays
 + can run private Tor networks with user/traffic models based on [Tor
   metrics][tormetrics] 
 + much, much more!

## Real Applications as Shadow Plug-ins

Shadow is a discrete-event simulator that runs **real applications** like
[Tor][tor] . Shadow links to real application software and **natively executes
the application code** during simulation, providing faithful experiments and
accurate results. Shadow models and runs distributed networks using these
applications on a single Linux machine, easing experiment management while
keeping the focus on the results.

#### What are Plug-ins?

Plug-ins are shared library shims that are linked to real applications. Shadow
dynamically loads these libraries to natively execute the application code.
Shadow intercepts a selective set of system calls to enable seamless integration
of an application to the simulated environment. In this way, the application may
be unaware that it is running in the simulator and will function as if it was
running in a standard UNIX environment.

Visit [this page on the wiki][wiki-custom-plugin] for more information about how
to write your own custom Shadow plug-in.

#### What is shadow-plugin-tor?

shadow-plugin-tor is a Shadow plug-in for simulating the [Tor][tor] anonymity
network. shadow-plugin-tor integrates Tor into Shadow by wrapping the [Tor
source code][torsource] with the necessary hooks that allow it to communicate
with the Shadow simulator, thereby leveraging Shadow's unique functionality to
allow rapid prototyping and experimentation of Tor. shadow-plugin-tor also
contains scripts that assist in analyzing results, generating Tor topologies,
and running experiments using the generated topologies.

Visit [the shadow-plugin-tor wiki page][wiki-scallion] for more information on
the Tor plug-in and its memory requirements.

## Simulation Blueprint

The first step to using Shadow is to create a blueprint of an experiment. The
format of the blueprint is standard XML. The XML file tells Shadow when it
should create each virtual host, what software each virtual host should run. It
also specifies the structure of the network topology, and network properties
such as link latency, jitter, and packet loss rates. Shadow contains example XML
files to help get started!

<a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/design1.png"><img title="design1" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/design1.png" alt="" width="520" /></a>

_Shadow takes a simulation blueprint as input. This XML file specifies the
structure of the topology and the general flow of the experiment. Shadow's event
engine initializes hosts using the blueprint, and runs events on their behalf
until the simulation is complete._

## Discrete Time Events

Shadow creates several bootstrapping events after extracting the information
from the supplied XML blueprint file. Each of these events are executed at a
discrete time instant during the experiment. Each of these bootstrapping events
will cause the virtual hosts to start executing the specified software, which in
turn will spawn additional events for Shadow to process. Shadow tracks the time
each virtual host spends processing inside the application, and delays events
according to the host's configured virtual CPU speed. Events are continuously
executed until the simulation end time.

As applications send data to each other, Shadow packages that data into an
internal type and transfers the pointer between various queues. This process
involves the use of the main Shadow event queue to transfer the packet events
between virtual hosts, and rate-limiting to ensure each host has the desired
bandwidth capacity. The following image, courtesy of Steven Murdoch, may help
visualize this process:

<a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/shadow_packet_flow.pdf"><img title="shadow_packet_flow" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/shadow/shadow/assets/shadow_packet_flow.png" alt="" width="520" /></a>

_End-to-end application data flows through Shadow socket and interface buffers,
while the discrete event queue facilitates the transfer of data between virtual
hosts._

## Virtual Host Management

Each virtual host in Shadow runs real software, which are linked as Shadow
plug-ins. For each instance of the plug-in that a host is configured to run,
Shadow loads the plug-in into a private namespace container using a custom
loader and `dlmopen()`. The loader takes care to minimize duplicated memory
usage on multiple loads of the same plug-in.

With the virtual host's plug-in loaded, execution is then passed to the
application by calling the `main()` function using a version of [GNU portable
threads (pth)][gnu-pth]. Pth is an application-space non-preemptive
priority-based threading library that can jump call stacks to support plug-ins
that run multiple threads and block during execution. Shadow runs the plug-in
instance until it would block, and then moves on to execute other plug-ins and
hosts.

## Function Interposition

Shadow runs real applications that run on regular UNIX-type systems. These
applications expect a wide range of kernel libraries to be available for use.
For example, sending and receiving data over the network, system time, and
device polling are all generally handled by the kernel at some level. These
system functions (and others) are intercepted and redirected through
Shadow-specific versions. In this way, Shadow provides the ability for hosts to
seamlessly communicate with each other over the virtual network without
requiring any changes to the application code.

## More information

See [the original Shadow webcast][youtube-shadow-design] for more information
about Shadow's original design, and for an explanation of some experiments that
utilize this unique architecture. An explanation of recent architecture updates
to support blocking system calls (read/write/send/recv/sleep) and applications
that spawn threads [can be found here][cset-rpth-slides]. Checkout [Google
Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?oi=bibs&hl=en&cites=12341442653770148265)
for research publications that cite Shadow.

<!--<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/Tb7m8OdpD8A" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>-->

[tor]: https://www.torproject.org/
[tormetrics]: https://metrics.torproject.org/
[torsource]: https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor.git
[wiki-scallion]: https://github.com/shadow/shadow-plugin-tor/wiki
[wiki-custom-plugin]: https://github.com/shadow/shadow/wiki/2-Simulation-Execution-and-Analysis#shadow-plug-ins
[youtube-shadow-design]: https://youtu.be/Tb7m8OdpD8A
[cset-rpth-slides]: https://www.robgjansen.com/talks/shadowbitcoin-cset-20150810.pdf
[gnu-pth]: https://www.gnu.org/software/pth/
