# Network Graph Overview

Processes running in Shadow do not have access to the internet; instead,
processes running on Shadow virtual hosts utilize an internal routing module to
communicate with other processes running on other virtual hosts in the
simulation. The routing module is used to position virtual hosts within a
network topology, to compute communication paths between virtual hosts, and to
enforce network path characteristics like latency and packet loss.

Importantly, the routing module is currently used to _model_ the performance
characteristics of internet paths; we do not _simulate_ the behavior of network
routers (we do not run routing protocols like
[BGP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Border_Gateway_Protocol)).

This page describes the routing module and how it can be configured.

## Graph

Shadow represents a network topology over which processes can communicate using
a [weighted graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_(discrete_mathematics)).
The graph contains _vertices_ that abstractly represent network locations, and
_edges_ representing network paths between those locations.

When referring to a network graph, the terms _vertices_ and _nodes_ are
interchangeable. In our documentation, we refer to these as _nodes_. Note that
nodes in the network graph are distinct from virtual hosts in the Shadow config
file: a virtual host models an end-host machine, whereas a network node
represents a location at which a host can connect to the simulated network.

Shadow requires that the network graph is
[connected](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connectivity_(graph_theory)) such that
there exists at least one _path_ (a series of one or more edges) between every
pair of nodes.

## Behavior

The graph encodes network positioning and path characteristics as attributes on
the nodes and edges. Shadow uses the connectivity graph along with the
information encoded in node and edge attributes to:

  - attach virtual hosts to specific nodes (i.e., locations) in the network
    graph;
  - assign the bandwidth allowed for each attached virtual host;
  - compute the shortest path (weighted by edge `latency`) between two virtual
    hosts using [Dijkstra's
    algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm); and
  - compute the end-to-end latency and packet loss for the shortest path.

The bandwidth of the virtual hosts and the end-to-end latency and packet loss
for a shortest path between two virtual hosts are then enforced for all network
communication.

## Important Notes

  - The network graph may be directed or undirected, as long as the graph is
    structured such that every node can reach every other node through a
    series of edges.
  - If the network graph is a [complete
    graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complete_graph) (there exists a single
    unique edge between every pair of nodes), then we can avoid running the
    shortest path algorithm as a performance optimization by setting the
    [use_shortest_path
    option](shadow_config_spec.md#networkuse_shortest_path) to `False`.
  - Each node in the graph must have a self-loop (an edge from the node to
    itself). This edge will be used for communication between two hosts
    attached to the same node, regardless of if a shorter path exists.

## Network Graph Attributes

We encode attributes on the nodes and edges that allow for configuring the
simulated network characteristics. The attributes and their effect on the
simulated network are described in more detail (alongside a simple example
graph) on [the network graph specification page](network_graph_spec.md).

## Using an Existing Graph

We created a large network graph representing worldwide latencies and bandwidths
as of 2018 using the [RIPE Atlas measurement platform](https://atlas.ripe.net).
The graph contains network bandwidths and latencies in and between major cities
around the world, and is suitable for general usage for most types of Shadow
simualtions. The graph is [available for download as a research
artifact](https://tmodel-ccs2018.github.io/data/shadow/network/atlas-lossless.201801.shadow113.graphml.xml.xz)
and more details about the measurement methodology is available on [the research
artifacts site](https://tmodel-ccs2018.github.io).

Note: [the scripts we used to create the graph](https://github.com/shadow/atlas)
are also available, but are not recommended for general use. The scripts require
advanced knowledge of RIPE Atlas and also require that you possess RIPE Atlas
credits to conduct the measurements needed to create a new graph. We recommend
using our existing graph linked above instead, which we may periodically update.

## Creating Your Own Graph

The python module [networkx](https://networkx.github.io/) can be used to create
and manipulate more complicated graphs.
